# Tai Tony Tran Data Science Portfolio

I am a proud alumni from the University of Houston with a degree in Biochemistry with an extensive mastery in Python and SQL that is seeking a position in Data Science. Backed by two certifications in Python programming and a certification in Data Science, I aspire to contribute to the analysis of complicated data that will guide strategic business decisions that align with a company's goals and objectives. Within this repository, you can find projects that I've worked on that display my capacity to analyze large data sets, train and evaluate machine learning models, and create easy to understand visualizations.

## [Approximating Shelter Time for Austin Animal Center Dogs](https://github.com/TonyTranPortfolio/Portfolio/tree/main/Austin_Dog_Adoptions)
In addition to my passion for data science, I take photos for and co-manage a dog model Instagram account that has over 6,000 followers. Through this business venture, I have grown close to the rescue dog community in Texas and was curious to see how I could apply my data analytical skills in this field. I recently worked on a project that involved animal intake and outcome data from the Austin Animal Center, programming a machine learning model for predicting approximate shelter times for incoming dogs. This model was used to easily identify dogs that would have problematically long shelter times, allowing the shelter to focus their efforts towards methods that would increase each dogs' chances at a live outcome. It also helped with the logistics of incoming and outgoing dogs, helping to mitigate the shelter's issue of overcapacity.

## [Forecasting COVID-19 Cases in the United States](https://github.com/TonyTranPortfolio/Portfolio/tree/main/COVID-19%20Cases%20and%20Deaths)
With an insatiable curiosity towards new discoveries in medical science, I wanted to use what I learned from previous projects and adopt them towards another project regarding health and medical data, such as with COVID-19. In this project, I I created a more complex machine learning model that was used to forecast future Covid-19 cases based on data features such as past hospitalizations, vaccination data, and previous infections. The resulting forecasted data was pushed to an online spreadsheet using Google Sheet API and visualized on an interactive Tableau dashboard that updates to the live Covid-19 data. The resulting dashboard shows the current COVID-19 case and death
